In this lecture, we are going to fix the problem with our custom image size.
Gutenberg is not providing our size as an option.
The reason is simple.
Like anything else, WordPress does not like including everything with a response.
Keep in mind this information was grabbed with the rest API.
Custom values must be explicitly added to a response, otherwise WordPress will not include it, adding
the custom size to the rest.
API response is simple.
There is a hook for including sizes in your editor.
Open the index plug and file.
At the bottom of the hook section at another hook called image size names choose with the add filter
function.
Up until now, we've been adding hooks with the add action function.
There's another type of hook called a filter hook.
A filter hook is a function that returns a value.
Typically, hooks give us the flexibility to run additional code.
We never have to return a value filter.
Hooks are different.
A filter hook is given a value.
This value must be returned by the function.
Alternatively, we can return a new value or a modified version of the value.
Filter hooks are utilized to give plugins the opportunity to modify a value.
Let's look at an example.
In our plugin, we are hooking into a filter hook called Image Size Names Choose.
This hook will run when a list of image sizes is retrieved similar to the ADD Action function, we can
specify a function to run during this hook.
Let's set the name to up custom image sizes.
Next, let's create a file called image sizes.
PHP inside the includes folder.
Define the up custom image sizes function.
As stated before, filter hooks will provide a value to a function.
This statement is always true.
We can accept the value as an argument.
In our case, WordPress will provide us with an array of image sizes.
From our function.
We must return an array of sciences.
Before we do, let's return the array.
Merge function.
The size is variable will contain a list of sizes for images by default.
Our sizes are not included.
We can fix this problem by adding our sizes to the array.
There are different ways to add items to an array.
I prefer to use the array merge function which will merge to arrays into a single array.
This function accepts an unlimited number of arrays to merge.
Let's pass in the sizes array.
Next, let's create another array.
In this array, we are going to add our custom image size.
The format for adding a new size is the name of the size, followed by a human readable name.
In the previous lecture, the name of our custom size was called Team Member.
The name will be set as the key.
The value for this key will be the human readable name.
Let's run the double underscore a function to translate the name.
The value of the key will be the following team member.
To reiterate, we are merging to erase the original array and our new array.
By doing so, the team member size will become available with the response.
Let's try testing our code by refreshing the experimental page.
At the team members group block.
Lastly, try selecting an image.
Open the console panel from the developer tools.
An object should have been logged in the object search for the science property.
This time our size appears in the object.
That's great.
We have a URL to the image.
With our custom size, we can add this URL to our block to display the image in the next lecture.
Let's begin working on that.